1. `.last` This returns the last element of the array. If the array is empty, it returns nil. You can also pass in an argument e.g. `.last(3)` to return the last n elements of the array.
2. `.sort` Returns a new array that contains the same elements as the original array, but sorted, either numerically or alphabetically, depending on the contents of the array.
3. `.each` This iterates through each item in the array, calling a specified block and passing the array element as a parameter. Can use to e.g. perform a calculation on each element in an array, or print each element. The format is `.each{|item| block}` e.g. `.each{|x| puts x}`
4. `.join` Returns a string consisting of all elements in the array joined (pushed) together. You can also specify a separator character if you want e.g. spaces or commas between the array elements (default is no space or character). Format for that is `.join(",")`.
5. `.index` Returns the index (position in the array) of the first instance in the array of the specified argument. Format is `.index(argument)` Returns nil if there is no match. You can also pass it a block instead of an argument, in which case it will return the index of the first instance in the array where the block returns true. For this, the format is `.index{ |item| block }`
6. `.include?` Returns true if the included object is present in the array, otherwise returns false. Format is `.include?(object)`.
7. `.collect` Format is `.collect{ |item| block }`. It goes through the array and calls the block on each element in the array. It returns a new array containing the values. The difference between `.each` and `.collect` is that `.each` runs the block on each element, then just returns the original array. `.collect` returns a new array containing all the values.
8. `.first` Returns the first element of the array. If the array is empty, it returns nil. You can also pass it an argument to return the first n elements of the array.
9. `.shuffle` Returns a new array with the same elements of the original array, but in a shuffled order. You can also pass an optional argument specifying the random number generator. 
